A MUE guide for setting up and hosting a masternode on a Digital Ocean droplet.

The MUE network has switched to a Dash-X11 code base, and as such it inherits the strengths that a 2-tier network brings, in terms of a strong masternode network for additional functions and security of the network.

The masternodes perform tasks for the MUE network. These are for instance InstantSend, PrivateSend, storage of the blockchain and governance capabilities. As a reward for running these functions, the masternodes are paid out a part of the block reward for their services. The block reward is 40 MUE per block and each block occurs on average every 40 seconds, thus growing the supply 1 MUE every second.

The block reward is split in three providing 45% to the miner who solved the block, 45% to the masternode for it’s services and the remaining 10% going to the continuous funding of the MUE project. The masternode reward is 45%*40 MUE = 18 MUE per block.

How to setup a Virtual Private Server (VPS) and run a MUE masternode.

For starters, the reason for running a dedicated VPS instead of hosting one’s masternode on a home internet connection are several. The masternode must be up and running all the time to provide services for the network. Should the connection go down, or the node performs badly, the rest of the network will be unhappy with the services and the masternode loses payments. Many home internet providers are unhappy if the owner runs a server at home and may shut down access to the masternode.

A typical masternode uses around 500 GB or more of traffic per month. Home internet users with traffic caps will have a hard time running a masternode if the bandwidth is limited. It is especially important to have a high speed connection as the masternode is serving up the blockchain. Additional feature to the network will likely require a high speed connection as well.

VPS requirements for a masternode

The minimal requirements for running a masternode are:
1 GB of ram, 1 CPU core, 20 GB of harddrive space and a high speed internet connection and at least a transfer of 500 GB per month. Better hardware can be used to help the masternode performance, but using less than the required minimal hardware can make the masternode unstable and cause the node to crash or perform poorly. By doing so, the node can get kicked off the masternode lists, causing the masternode to lose payments.


Setting up a local wallet for cold storage and a hot wallet (masternode) on a VPS

Let's start by getting thew wallet for your platform.
Please go the website: htps://monetaryunit.org/download/ and select the wallet that matches your computer. For this tutorial wwe will be using a 64-bit Windows machine for the cold storage wallet and a Linux VPS for the hot masternode daemon.

Install wallet on local machine
Download the Windows client, monetaryunit-1.0.10.8-win64-setup.exe. You may check the files with the provided checksums, verify that the files downloaded correctly, and if they are different, please redownload the client again.

Install the client, and then start it.
You may be promted by the Windows Firewall to allow the wallet to accept connections on privat an dopen networks. Please select both network boxes and accept. Now, with the client open, let it sync to the network wait for the blockchain to be downloaded. The wallet will attempt to synchronize with the network, no manual actions should be needed at this point.

Protect your funds with a strong password.
In your wallet, go to "Settings" and then "Encrypt Wallet"
Provide a strong password to secure your funds. Please make sure to remeber this password or write it down and keep it in a bank safe deposit. If you lose your wallet password, there is no means of recovering your funds!
After providing a strong password, the wallet needs to be restarted to lock and ecrypt your funds. Please restart your wallet for this step to complete.

With the wallet back up and running, it's time to get it ready for the masternode address.
Open the console by clicking the "Tools" menu and selcting "Debug console"
The next command providews us with a key for the masternode collateral. Please type
masternode genkey
and hit enter. The output will look something like this: 7qm78BkY2LvriqGVTwRoXJWRTZkm9yH79L2FbRTp9NrQaTKRcGZ

Note: this is not the same as a MUE address private key. This key is used to communicate to the MUE netork that this is a masternode, it cannot be used to move the collateral funds. The key is used to announce the precence of the masternode to the network, or remove the node from the mastrenode list.

Next, we need to make a transaction of exactly 500 000 MUE to an address. This is very important, the transaction must be exaclty 500 000 MUE for the collateral, no more and no less.
Go to the "Recieve" tab of your wallet and in the Label field write "Masternode Collateral" and keep the two checkboxes "Reuse an existiing recieving address" and "Request InstantSend" unchecked. Click the orange button "Request payment" to get a new address:
7WszYALmCVMJLN39JngawyVszvwrjYMEub

This is the addtress we will be sendig our collateral to.

Next, make a transaction of exactly 500 000 MUE to the adddress you just generated. If you are sending from you own wallet or from an exchange, make sure that any transaction fees are not taken from the sending amount. It is crucial that the collateral transaction is exactly 500 000 MUE and made in one (1) single transaction.

Go to the "Send" tab of your wallet and paste in the MUE address to recieve the collateral funds.
Uncheck the box with "Subtract fee from amount" and ensure that the sending amount is exactly 500 000 MUE.

Please tripple check that the address is correct, and that the sending amount is 500 000 MUE. If you by mistake send your funds to the wrong address, THEY WILL BE GONE!

After checking everything, send your funds to the address above and wait for the transaction to confirm. Press "send" and write your wallet password to make the transaction.
Check the "Transactions" tab, and there should be a transaction listed as "Payment to yourself" if you sent the funds from the wallet. Otherwise sending from an exchange will list that transaction address instead.

While waiting, let's start working on the VPS (Virtual Private Server) hot node.
This guide will use Digital Ocean as a VPS provider, but the reader is free to chose whomever they like. The auther has used them for years as a masternode host and they are very reliable. There are definatly cheaper providers, but something to consider is that the masternode needs to be up and running 24/7 for supporting the network. Running a masternode on a cheaper, less reliable host will likely give more downtime and less payments in the longer run.

This promotion&referral code https://m.do.co/c/0c50700df3bf gives every new user a $10 value to start using a new VPS. Please freel free to use it if you like.
Sign up for a new account, log in and click "New Droplet"
For this guide we are looking to start a 16.04 Ubuntu version of Linux as the host:
Select the 1 GB / 1 CPU, 30 GB SSD Disk, 2 TB Transfer version. The $10 USD credit provided via the promotional code will give most of the first month hosting for free! Chose a location, it doesn't really matter, but it might be better to chose a location closer to yourself for the remote management.

Create the droplet, and the root login, ip and password will be sent to your email address. These details are needed to access your VPS instance.

To access a Linux VPS, you need a program called Putty, http://www.putty.org/ it is a client to securely connect remotly to the VPS host.

Install the client and open putty.exe, if needed allow it through the Windows firewall and access your new droplet.
Provide the ip-number, keep the port on 22, and save the configuration with a suitable name. This allows for easier access next time you want to log on your droplet.
Click connect and a block window will open up, promting you for your login and password. "root" is the login and the password is in your email from Digital Ocean.


Once logged in, it is smart to change the root password to something more secure. Remeber that the email with the root passowrd was sent in plain text, better change that and secure your VPS!
Type the command: passwd
and then provide a new password twice to change the password for user root.

We need a new common user to run the masternode. Running as root is in itself a security risk and is not encouraged. Here we are adding the user "mue", but you may choose whatever username you like.
type the following commands:

useradd -d /home/mue -s /bin/bash -m mue
passwd mue

This adds the user "mue" and we setup the users password.
Next add the user to the sudo group:
usermod -aG sudo mue

Now, we have a normal user that can do some administrative tasks on the system.

Lets switch to the new user "mue" and proceed with the installation:
su - mue

Just for good meassures, make sure the user mue is in the right directory:
cd /home/mue

Next, download the Linux client, and unpack the compressed files:
wget https://www.monetaryunit.org/downloads/linux64-1.0.0.1.tar.gz
tar -zxvf linux64-1.0.0.1.tar.gz

We need to copy the binaries to a local folder
mkdir /home/mue/bin
mkdir /home/mue/.muecore
cp /home/mue/linux64-1.0.0.1/bin/64/mue* /home/mue/bin/

and we will make sure they are executable
chmod 755 /home/mue/bin/mue*

We'll make sure that the binaries are found in the mue users path:
export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin

this setting will not take place untill the user mue has logged in again.
Before proceeding it is best to log off, and log in to the VPS again. This time though, we can log in as user "mue" with that users password that was setup ealier.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
If we want to build the daemon instead, we have to setup the building environment before compiling the source:

apt-get install build-essential libtool autotools-dev automake pkg-config libssl-dev libevent-dev bsdmainutils -y
apt-get install libboost-system-dev libboost-filesystem-dev libboost-chrono-dev libboost-program-options-dev libboost-test-dev libboost-thread-dev -y
apt-get install libboost-all-dev -y
add-apt-repository ppa:bitcoin/bitcoin -y
apt-get update -y
apt-get install libdb4.8-dev libdb4.8++-dev -y

cd Mue
./autogen.sh && ./configure --with-incompatible-bdb --without-miniupnpc && make
cd src
cp mued /home/mue/bin/
cp mue-cli /home/mue/bin/
cp mue-tx /home/mue/bin/
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Open putty again, and connect to your VPS. When prompted log in as user "mue"

Next step is to setup the configuration files for the MUE daemon (client)
Use the editor nano to edit the files. More experienced users may use other editors, but nano is an easy to use editor for new beginners and more experienced users alike.

cd .muecore
nano -w mue.conf

write or copy the settings below to your mue.conf file:

rpcuser=XXXXXXXXXXXXX
rpcpassword=XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
rpcallowip=127.0.0.1
#----
listen=1
server=1
daemon=1
maxconnections=50
#--------------------
masternode=1
masternodeprivkey=XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
externalip=XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX

The rpcuser and password can be anything you like, just put in some long random strings of text.
The masternodeprivkey is the long key we obtained earlier on the Windows wallet after the "masternode genkey" command.
The externalip is the ipnumber of the masternode VPS.

Save and exit the edited file by pressing "ctrl w" followed by "ctrl x".
We will secure the conf file by changing its permissions:

chmod 600 /home/mue/.muecore/mue.conf

Start the mue daemon:
mued -daemon

The MUE client will start downloading the blockchain, and syncronize to the network. Give it time to sync up, and in the meantime we will continue with more configuratin on the cold node (Windows). The masternode.conf on the Windows server must be made with the correct data for controlling the masternode hot node.

Open the Windows MUe client again, and under the menu "Tools" look for the option "Open Masternode Configuration File" near the bottom of the list. Select that option to open up hte configuration file. If prompted, select to open the file in Notepad.
The syntax of this file is very important, but it is also very straight forward.

The masternode.conf file needs a few values; 
Format: alias IP:port masternodeprivkey collateral_output_txid collateral_output_index
the "alias" is a name we assign to ou masternode, like MN1
"IP:port" are the external ip and node for the hot node on the VPS. The port for MUE mainnet is 29988
"masternodeprivkey" is the output from the "masternode genkey" command earlier, eg 7qm78BkY2LvriqGVTwRoXJWRTZkm9yH79L2FbRTp9NrQaTKRcGZ
for the "collateral_output_txid" and "collateral_output_index" we need to issue a command in the cold wallet console.

In the wallet, select "Tools" and "Debug console", and in the console window run the command:
"masternode outputs"
the output will look something like this:

masternode outputs
{
  "f9a2013b00205098ad8b192d9ac68e7d55e47eb80c860972a404a51bfbc100ac": "1"
}

which are the two values that we are looking for. The collateral_output_index will be either a "0" or a "1".

Put these values in the masternode.conf all on one single line, save the file and restart the wallet.

MN1 123.45.56.78:29988 7qm78BkY2LvriqGVTwRoXJWRTZkm9yH79L2FbRTp9NrQaTKRcGZ f9a2013b00205098ad8b192d9ac68e7d55e47eb80c860972a404a51bfbc100ac 1

When the cold wallet start sup again, check the masternode tab, and the masternode should be visable in the list of your own masternodes.

Final last commands on the VPS again, and let's check the status of the masternode. 
mue-cli mnsync status

We need the masternode hot wallet to be synced and up to date before proceeding.
It will be ready when the output looks like this:

{
"AssetID": 999,
"AssetName": "MASTERNODE_SYNC_FINISHED",
"Attempt": 0,
"IsBlockchainSynced": true,
"IsMasternodeListSynced": true,
"IsWinnersListSynced": true,
"IsSynced": true,
"IsFailed": false
}

If the output is different, please wait for the node to finnish syncing, and try the command "mue-cli mnsync status" again
When the hot node is all synced and ready, the node is communicating to the MonetaryUnit network and waiting for further instructions. The masterndoe is not yet accepted by the other masternodes, we must start it first. 

We need to activate the masternode, so we move back to the cold wallet on Windows.
Check the masternode tab of the wallet.

If you have more than one mastrenode in the list, check the masternode that you would like to start.

Finally, click the "Start alias" button, and the masternode will be activated on the network.

We can see the output change in the masternode status fiends to "Pre-Enabled" and then "Enabled"

step 7) start your masternode

At this point, your remote masternode is synchronized and chatting with the network
but is not accepted as a masternode because it hasn't been introduced to the network
by your collateral. 

Go back to your local wallet, open the debug console, and run these commands:

walletpassphrase <YOURPASSPHRASE> 120
masternode start-alias <MNALIAS>

to start your masternode.


step 8) test sentinel has nothing to say

You're needed back in Sentinel directory! 

cd sentinel

At this point, running

venv/bin/python bin/sentinel.py

should return nothing but silence. This is how you know it's working.

step 9) create a crontab entry to wake sentinel every five minutes

crontab -e

Choose nano as your editor. Add this line to the end of the file.

* * * * * cd /home/mue/.muecore/sentinel && ./venv/bin/python bin/sentinel.py 2>&1 >> sentinel-cron.log


Make sure you:
1) Change USERNAME to your username.
2) Hit enter to create another line at the end after this line, or the file will not work.

Press ctrl w to save and ctrl x exit.

step 10) check for start, try, try, again

cd /home/USERNAME/.muecore

./mue-cli masternode debug

Look for a success message. If you see one, you are done!

Because the network is in transition, you may have to re-send your masternode start.

to do it a second time, repeat step 7.

step 11) partytime!

Congratulations, your masternode is running!
